Welcome back.
So we've seen her make a single request using an X H.R. but that really isn't Ajax.
Remember that Ajax is the confluence of making a request however you do it.
SH In our case plus manipulating the dom in some way to make a seamless experience for your user.
Basically we're doing part of the equation we're making the request but we're not doing anything with
the data.
So we're going to go through and make a very simple silly app today but it will do.
I have it open here or in the starter code.
It doesn't work just yet but we have a button we click this button and it will replace this image with
a new random dog image.
I'm sorry for any cat lovers.
I couldn't find a cat epeat.
Actually that's a lie.
I didn't look for a cat API but I don't think one exists.
So we're using dogs.
This is what the API looks like by the way.
So every time we request it notice this you know it changes.
It gives us a random one might be hard to see that small but it does change.
So we're going to take this you RL.
Well first when you click this button we want it to trigger a request.
That request goes off comes back.
Then we take this you know and we update show you here this image what part do we update.
We update the source.
So it has a source already that I've given it just a standard kind of starter image but we'll be changing
this as we go.
So that's really the Ajax flow.
Something happens to initiate a request then that request goes off comes back and then you do something
with the data to manipulate the Dom to show that change.
So in the case of Gmail what is actually initiating those requests.
Well what actually happens or what used to happen is that it was on a timer and every let's say 30 seconds
or a minute a request would be made to Google server to say hey does cold have any new e-mails.
If he does give them to us then they come back and then in our javascript those new emails are appended
to the page.
The Dahmus manipulated in the same way we're going to do here.
But rather than an image that we're adding they're adding whatever aged him markup.
Email needs or in the case of Pinterest like we saw earlier scrolling down to the bottom triggers the
request the request is made.
Data comes back and then new pens are appended.
So we're starting simple.
We have a button here.
And the first thing that we should do is just get code to run when we click the button.
So that's simple but start by selecting the button.
I should point out our markup.
Very very simple.
I just have a container instead of that and H-1 that we're not manipulating an image tag that we will
be updating and a button that we care about.
It has an ID code and we just want to be able to capture those clicks trigger the request then the C
S S is very simple actually use fluxbox as you can see to center things here horizontally but really
doesn't matter.
So I'm going to hide that focus on our.
No I didn't just hide it in unheated
and Ormoc javascript a little bigger.
OK.
So we're going to select the button.
I'll call it between and I'll use queery selector document dot query selector.
The ID is PTEN and save.
Then we'll do a BT and add event listener click
give it a function here and let's just do an alert clicked just to make sure everything is hooked up
correctly.
So when I click that button we should get an alert that says clicked and it works OK.
So rather than just alerting us we want to actually make the request.
So we'll start with listen for clicks.
Make the request when the click happens.
This is all of our fun.
Exige our code.
So we'll make a new request for X H.R. equals x.
Oh all caps h caps lowercase TTP request with Capitol R.
Let's figure out that u r l.
So I have that here.
D'Agde CEO slash API slash.
Image slash random.
Also include that as a link.
Come back just pasted in to start.
We're going to want to do our ex-aide char.
Open the first parameter is get string.
The second one is the string if you are up then we have our ex-aide chart.
Send OK.
So we're getting there now we need to actually do something with the data.
And that's where we have to do our on ready state change one code.
So Exige are done right on ready state change equals function.
And in here we'll add in our if basically check if it's done.
So if ex-aide Charcot ready state always confusing to that state is capitalized here but not here.
But no most events are all events are uncapitalized.
It does make sense but it can be confusing if it equals four.
And let's just do our status code as well.
And ex-aide chart status equals the cost 200.
Let's just do the log.
Ex-aide Charcot response text.
Ok that's a mouthful there.
But make a new request when a click happens we send it to this you are Alice get request then more checking
and the time that the ready state changes.
Is it equal to 4.
Meaning that it's done and is the status code 200.
Meaning that it worked successfully.
Status.
OK.
If that's true both of those conditions then just print out the response text and we won't see anything
here.
We're just making the request.
Let's see.
I'm getting an error message saying that I need to add the new keyword which is true wherever creating
the requests I need to say new XM out keep request.
OK so now when I click the button I go to my console can see I get some data.
Now this is different than the get hub API.
Remember that the GET HOME API just sent me a thing a text.
It wasn't structured as Jaison or X-amount.
But this is structured as Jaison.
So if I want to get let me go to the go to the actual source of it I just want the message I don't care
about status.
I want the message and the corresponding u r l so that I can get that image to do that.
You'd think I could just say Dot message
because it looks like javascript object message would get me that.
But if I try and click the button I just get undefined every time.
Three times a night.
So it's still going and getting the data to be clear but don't message doesn't exist.
And that's because it's not a javascript object.
This can be confusing.
It's Jason but it's still all a string.
What I need to do is convert it to a javascript object from that string.
So it actually looks like this.
If I just copied it.
If this is the data we're getting back that looks like an object but put it on quotes like this.
And that's what it looks like and I can't do Dunton message on a string like I could on an object.
So we need to turn it into Jaison and the way we do that is very simple.
There's a method called Jaison dot parse just like that.
So I want to give it ex-aide Charcot response text tell it to parse that and save the result as a variable
we'll call it far.
Data equals Jason parse Exige our response text then we'll count the log data.
So it should actually give us the exact same thing but you'll notice a slight difference may refresh.
Click the button corrects my.
Do a better click.
There we go.
Notice that this time instead of just being text it's an interactive object.
That's how we know it's actually an object says that rather than just being a string.
So now we can say Dot message OK save one last time.
Now I click and I'm just getting that you are all perfect.
So we've now dialed it in.
We're making the request.
When should happen when the button is correct.
We're getting the data back.
Converting it to Jason.
We're taking the message part.
That's all we care about.
And we're saving it too.
We're not saving it to a variable just yet so let's do that now.
Var you are all equals.
There you go.
Message.
So this will just have you are variable and all we want to do now is update the image tag so that it's
dot source SIRC is equal to you.
So we need to select the image and I'll do that up top.
Var I m g equals document that queries selector.
Do I give it an ID.
Yes Id calls photo kind of a dumb name but will go with it so that selects the image and then down here
once the request is done and go to 200 once we have that you or all of the random dog you are well dog
photo you are l we just do image dot SIRC equals this new you know image being the image we selected
So let's see.
It's a moment of truth to make this a bit bigger.
Start off with that.
I click and it works.
Nice cute dog.
There's another one.
And I love it.
I nice little husky maybe that looks like a Palm ski Pomeranian husky.
Who knows.
So what's happening again just to sum this all up.
This is kind of the traditional Ajax workflow something triggers an event that event then sends off
a request somewhere then the data comes back once it's back.
We parsed the data we get what we want kind of prune it all the excess away and then we update the dom
in some way.
And that same workflow is used all over the place in single page applications.
So I want to show you that I Pinterest open and I don't just want to show you what you see as a user.
I want to show you what's happening underneath.
So if we open the console here I'm going to go to network and there's actually an exit chart tab.
You may or may not have seen before.
So as I scroll over here watch what happens on the left or on the right.
So I hit the bottom and it needs to load more data.
It makes a new X H.R. request.
Here comes another one.
You can see each one of these is it.
It's a request.
And each one has status code 200.
So every time I'm doing that it's firing off an event that says OK go make a request get more data and
you can actually dive more into what the data looks like over here what's coming back.
You can see how long it takes how large the payload is.
You can learn a lot about them.
You can see that you are well and all that stuff.
So one more time it's kind of fun to see these requests that we're creating.
So it's working the exact same way it's just much more complex data that's coming back rather than our
little dog button.
But it's the same idea triggering an event request that sense data comes back page is updated.
Cool you get one more to the oh that's perfect.
Leave it off on high a little Chowchow.
All right.
Hopefully those kind of fun.